docs: add amplifier build instructions (#834)
axelarnetwork/axelar-amplifier: build.md

Reviewer: Call `BUILD.md` as per github doc convention

Reviewer: Rename the file?

Reviewer: you'll need to delete it, commit it, and then re-add it since file names are case insensitive on mac os

# Amplifier Build Instructions

This document provides instructions for building Amplifier components, including contracts and the `ampd` service.

## Prerequisites

> - Rust and Cargo (rust-version = "1.81.0" currently required)

Reviewer: link to the code where the rust version is specified instead of hardcoding it here (which requires more maintenance)

> - Docker (for contract optimization)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker (for reproducible optimized contract builds)
```

> - Git (for cloning and handling submodules)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
this is a github repo so it's implied :)

- cargo-run-script (for running optimization scripts)

## Building the Project

### Building Everything for Development

To build the entire project for development and testing:

```bash
cargo build
```

This will compile all packages, contracts, and the ampd service for your local machine architecture.

### Building Specific Components for Development

To build a specific component for development/testing purposes:

```bash
cd contracts/<contract-name>
cargo build
```
Or run tests:
```bash
cd contracts/<contract-name>
cargo test
```

> ## Building and Optimizing Contracts for Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Release Build
```

CosmWasm contracts need to be built for the WebAssembly target and optimized for deployment. The optimization process is essential for reducing contract size and gas costs.

> ### Installing cargo-run-script
> 
> First, install the cargo-run-script tool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the cargo-run-script tool:
```
implied by section header, otherwise keep the sentence and remove the section header. Try to keep things concise in general

```bash
cargo install cargo-run-script
```

> ### Building and Optimizing a Contract for Deployment
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
implied by the sentence and earlier section name

To create a reproducible wasm build for a contract via the cosmwasm [optimizer](https://github.com/CosmWasm/optimizer):

```bash
cd contracts/<contract-name>
cargo run-script optimize
```

This command:
- Compiles the contract for the WebAssembly target with appropriate flags
- Runs the resulting Wasm file through an optimizer
- Produces a deployment-ready binary

Make sure Docker is running on your system before executing this command.

Note: For actual blockchain deployment, always use the optimized contract, not the standard build output.

## ampd

### Configuration

> To run a local instance of `ampd`, you need to provide a configuration file. You can use the template located at `ampd/src/tests/config_template.toml` as a starting point:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a local instance of `ampd`, you need to provide a configuration file. You can use [this template](ampd/src/tests/config_template.toml) as a starting point:
```
use links instead of writing out the path

> # Amplifier Build Instructions

Reviewer: This needs to be linked from the README, otherwise no one will notice it

This document provides instructions for building Amplifier components, including contracts and the `ampd` service.

## Prerequisites

- Rust and Cargo (rust-version = "1.81.0" currently required)
- Docker (for contract optimization)
- Git (for cloning and handling submodules)
- cargo-run-script (for running optimization scripts)

## Initial Setup

When cloning the repository, make sure to initialize and update submodules:

```bash
# Clone the repository

> git clone https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-amplifier.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone --recurse-submodules  https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-amplifier.git
```
easier setup

Reviewer: this kind of crucial setup cmd should be shown in the readme itself to reduce the risk of missing it and causing errors

cd axelar-amplifier

# Initialize and update submodules
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

If you've already cloned the repository without initializing submodules and encounter errors like:

```
Error: Custom { kind: Other, error: "protoc failed: Could not make proto path relative: proto-files/ampd/v1/ampd.proto: No such file or directory" }
```

Run the submodule initialization commands as shown above.

## Building the Project

### Building Everything

To build the entire project:

```bash

> cargo build

Reviewer: This isn't very clear. To build a contract, you need to build for the wasm target with appropriate flags. Need to clarify that building the contract should be done via the optimize script. But building or testing a project for development purposes can be done via cargo build/test

```

This will compile all packages, contracts, and the `ampd` service.

### Building Specific Components

To build a specific contract or component:

```bash

> # Example: Build the coordinator contract
> cd contracts/coordinator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd contracts/<contract-name>
```
should be clear

cargo build
```

## Optimizing Contracts

CosmWasm contracts need to be optimized for deployment. The contracts in this repository include optimization scripts in their Cargo.toml files.

### Installing cargo-run-script

First, install the cargo-run-script tool:

```bash
cargo install cargo-run-script
```

> ### Running Contract Optimization
> 
> Navigate to the contract directory and run the optimization script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build contract wasm

Create a reproducible wasm build for a contract via the cosmwasm [optimizer](https://github.com/CosmWasm/optimizer).
```
perhaps?

```bash

> # Example: Optimize the coordinator contract
> cd contracts/coordinator
> cargo run-script optimize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd contracts/<contract-name>

cargo run-script optimize
```

```

> This will execute a Docker command (defined in the contract's Cargo.toml) that:
> - Mounts your current directory to a Docker container
> - Uses volume mounts for caching compilation artifacts
> - Produces an optimized WebAssembly binary
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
not needed with the above rewrite I think

> The typical optimize script looks like:
> 
> ```
> docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/code \
>   --mount type=volume,source="$(basename "$(pwd)")_cache",target=/code/target \
>   --mount type=volume,source=registry_cache,target=/usr/local/cargo/registry \
>   cosmwasm/optimizer:0.16.1
> ```

Reviewer: Avoid duplicating the cmd since it increases maintenance work (more likely that it gets outdated when Cargo.toml changes for it)
```suggestion
```

Make sure Docker is running on your system before executing this command.

> ## Running ampd

Reviewer: Maybe pull the basic git setup in the README. Then create a `README.md` in `ampd` and `contracts` each and link to both from the top-level README?

Author: Moved the initial setup stage to readme. I believe having a single file (this `build.md`) as a one stop shop to know how to build and run everything is more convenient than having having those `README.me` files for contracts.

### Configuration

To run a local instance of `ampd`, you need to provide a configuration file. You can use the template located at `ampd/src/tests/config_template.toml` as a starting point:

```bash
# Copy the config template
cp ampd/src/tests/config_template.toml my_ampd_config.toml

# Edit the configuration as needed
```

Customize the configuration according to your requirements (network connections, RPC endpoints, etc.).

### Building and Running ampd

```bash
# Build ampd
cargo build --bin ampd

# Run ampd with your configuration

> ./target/debug/ampd --config my_ampd_config.toml

Reviewer: maybe just split into separate `Build` and `Run` subsections instead of comments

> ./target/debug/ampd --config my_ampd_config.toml

Reviewer: Link to an example ampd config that needs to be created? Do we have one in the axelar docs or this repo?

Author: I have mentioned this in the configuration subsection right above this section:

```bash
# Copy the config template
cp ampd/src/tests/config_template.toml my_ampd_config.toml

# Edit the configuration as needed
```

```

## Troubleshooting

### Git Submodule Issues

If you encounter errors related to missing protocol buffer files or other submodule content, ensure that you've correctly initialized and updated submodules:

```bash
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

### Docker Issues with Contract Optimization

When running contract optimization, make sure that:
- Docker is installed and running
- You have sufficient permissions to run Docker commands
- Your Docker daemon has access to the internet to pull the optimizer image

> ## Advanced: Release Process

Reviewer: This is unrelated to build, add a Release section in the README and link from there?
